h1. Camel Module for Play! Framework 

h2. About this module

p. This module aim at integrating "EIP pattern":http://www.eaipatterns.com/toc.html into the Play! Framework.

h2. Components of this module

* A JMS Broker: "ActiveMQ":http://activemq.apache.org/
* A EIP Context: "Camel":http://camel.apache.org/

h2. Installing module

* Using conf/dependencies.yaml and adding a dependency: 

bc. play -> camel 1.0

* Using conf/application.conf and adding a module: 

bc. module.camel=${play.path}/modules/camel-1.0

h2. Getting dependencies

p. You need to *{color:red}make sure you are able to retreive all dependencies* for this module, or it won't work. Dependencies are fetched from mavenCentral and "Maven Dev Space":http://maven.dspace.org/snapshot/

bc. play dependencies --sync

h2. Configuring

p. Not much to configure, all required settings have defaults values.

h3. List of properties user can override

table{border:1px solid black}.
{background:#ccc}.|_.Key|_.Default|_.Description|Required|
|broker.connector|none (ex.: tcp://localhost:61616)|host:port that will be exposed by the ActiveMQ Connector|Optional|
{background:#eee}.|broker.url|vm:localhost|URL used for instanciating an embedded broker|Optional|

h2. Using @Inject

p. You can inject @CamelContext@ into any class by using "JSR-300":http://code.google.com/p/atinject/:

bc. 
@Inject
private static CamelContext context

A good place is in a Bootstrap class, a class that extends @Job@ and has the @OnApplicationStart@ annotation:

bc. 
@OnApplicationStart
public class Bootstrap extends Job {
...
}

h2. Making your first @Route@

p. In the previous class in which you injected @CamelContext@, you can then use the "Camel DSL":http://camel.apache.org/dsl.html which support:

* Java
* Scala
* Spring XML[1]

h3. RouteBuilder : Where it all begin...

p. I recommend you to read the "architecture":http://camel.apache.org/architecture.html documentation if you need more than this _basic_ example.

p. Here is a sample route you can test easily:

bc. 
// Prepare the route
RouteBuilder routes = new RouteBuilder() {
	@Override
	public void configure() throws Exception {
		from("file:///Users/marcus/tmp/INBOX").id("myInbox").log("Sending to JMS").to("activemq:testQueue");
		from("activemq:testQueue").id("myFakeEMail").log("Sending Email").to("log:myLogCategory?level=INFO&showBody=true");
	}
};

p. The 1st route simply check for files in my INBOX directory, and then send the content to the @testQueue@ JMS queue. The 2nd route listen for incoming messages, then send the content to a log category. The @to@ part could have been a ftp, a smtp, or a bean (a @processor@ in Camel terms...) 

p. After the routes are created, you can then deploy them using the @RouteBuilder@ class you created directly in @CamelContext@:

bc. 
// Add them to camel-context
ctx.addRoutes(routes);


h2. Conclusion

p. *You now have a fully fonctionning EIP + an embedded JMS Broker right on your Play! application*.

??Have fun ;-)??, Marc



fn1. Notes : This module support only Java DSL for now.